All right, so let's go ahead and install Android Studio.
It's very simple, we can just head off to Google and write install Android Studio as such and you're
going to get a few hits.
So I just go to either one of these links here.
I just go to straight to go to download.
Click there.
And in this case here, this is why you should see if you're watching this right now.
But of course, Android Studio as an idea changes constantly.
Or at least the engineers are making it better, so things may be different by the time you watch this.
This could be a different logo, but the idea is that this is what you need to come any time you need
to install Android Studio.
You can scroll down to see what Android Studio has to offer.
OK, so all we're going to do is just click here.
Download Android Studio.
Of course, we will ask you to read some terms and conditions.
You can do that.
Scroll down and then say, I have read, Oh, it's good and I'm going to click and the download process
will start.
Now, this may take a little bit, depending on your computer and the speeds that you have and so forth.
And the other thing that you have to realize, or at least you should be aware of, is that when you
want to download Android Studio, Android Studio is a very heavy idea.
So your computer has to be set up to handle that.
So if you scroll down, you can see here so system requirements.
So for Mac, Linux, Chrome OS and so forth.
But we are talking about Windows.
And so these are the system requirements that you have to be aware of.
So has to be 64 bit Microsoft Windows eight or 10 and all of these requirements.
And you can see we have all of these system requirements that you have to have in order for this to
work.
All right.
So this is still downloading.
Give it a few minutes and we'll be back.
OK, now we see that it was downloaded.
Let's double click to start the installation process.
OK, and this may happen to you.
All we have to say here is just say yes, it's verified to say all is good and we can continue.
So now we're going to go ahead.
Can see we have this window here.
We can say next and all is good.
Just leave as it is, I'm going to say next.
So this is the location that's picked to install Android Studio.
That's fine.
We'll say next again.
And that's fine in this case here you can say, do not create shortcuts if you don't want to.
I'm just going to leave as it is and say so, and it's going to start installing all the dependencies,
all the modules that are needed for Android Studio to work.
OK.
After a few moments, you should see this completed.
Let's say next.
And he's going to start Android Studio and say, finish.
Such take a few seconds, you should see.
There we go.
Android Studio is started and is going to ask us if we want to import Android Studio settings.
So these assumes that we already have and or had, this would say, Android Studio installed and set
up on our machine.
In this case, this is the first time.
I'm just going to say do not import settings because I actually have none.
So just click OK, and it should see something like this.
Now it's very important for what are we going to be doing that we have this Arctic Fox, Android Studio
or higher?
Because that's what's needed for creating modern applications using jetpack compose.
All right.
So I'm going to say, don't stand for now.
And there you have it.
We need to update a few things in this case.
Just click updates or whatever that is asking us to do at this point of setting up.
We need to just say yes because Android Studio knows better and because we need to restart a few things.
Now, let's go ahead and restart Android Studio.
OK.
That's very good.
And have a few moments.
You should see this.
OK, so now it is welcome.
That means all this good.
And let's say next, I'm going to use the standards Android Studio.
You can change to your liking if you want.
You can say custom.
You can customize it as a standard for now.
I say next, and in this case, you can use a dark color, so it's a darker color.
I like that best, but if you don't want that, you can use light whenever you want to use.
That's fine.
Can I keep on dark color?
Say next.
And if you want to review or change any of these, that's all good.
That means all of these settings will be set up for us.
So we don't have to worry about anything so standard.
That's totally fine when I say finish.
So now what's going to do is going to go ahead and install all the components, tools and everything
that we need to have in order for us to be able to write Android applications and used emulator to emulate
to that to test our apps.
It may take a few seconds, so just be patient and wait until all is done.
In most cases, you won't have this problem that says unable to install intel hasn't.
So what this is is a way to make the emulator to work faster on your machine.
Because when you are using emulators on Android development, which is connected to Android Studio,
it takes up a lot of memory and it's really heavy on your CPU.
So axons a component that when installed in your machine, it will all help with the accelerated virtualization,
which means really just to make sure that.
I create a virtual machine within this main machine so that the emulator can run on.
OK.
So because of the set up that I have on this window machine, this is not possible now.
If you have an issue such as this, there's a way to fix this that I will share with you later.
In this case, we should be OK for now.
I'm going to say finish.
And once that is done, you can see that we can create a new project and so forth.
And while we're here, let's go ahead and create a new project.
OK.
So because we are going to talk about compose, there's different ways to create to start our Android
project.
What are we going to do here?
We're going to start with an empty compose activity.
I say next and voila.
So the next thing we need to do here is notice that we can give a name to our application.
I'm going to say my test app such and it can give a package name.
You just leave as it is.
And this is the location where this is going to live this project.
And of course, we're going to use Kotlin.
That is the default language, as you see there.
OK.
All right.
So the other thing you notice here is that we have minimum SDK where this will be run on.
That's fine API twenty one.
That's totally fine.
We we can go higher.
In this case, you could use the latest one.
But notice the higher you go, the less devices are supported.
So we just testing things.
Let's just get to API 29.
That's fine.
All right.
I'm going to go ahead and say, finish.
Now you can see that Android Studio has started, OK, very well.
So there we go.
We have a studio in tells us what's new.
This is the assistant.
You can always hide it from their target and is loading.
Our first project there, so we'll take a few seconds.
Now, just keep in mind that this process may take a while, so just be patient.
While the whole project is being indexed, it's getting all the dependencies SDK and all that great
stuff in the background.
So just just be patient with this.
All right.
So after a few moments, you can see that everything is indexed to concede there is no loading at the
bottom here.
So that's the good news.
And now it's going to ask us to build and refresh to hopefully see some sort of preview here of our
compose code that is written there gets it looks like it says failed to install the following Android
Studio sticks as some licenses have not been accepted.
Right?
So to build this project, except the sticky license agreements and install the missing components and
it says here using the Android Studio SDK manager.
So Android Studio SDK manager is here, so have over to the right.
So I'm going to click that.
So let's go ahead and install that one there, which is Android 11 R, and let's see what else to do.
I think that's fine for now.
OK, what's going to say Plie?
I say, OK, I'm going to accept.
So this is what needed to be done and what to say except say next and now is going to install those
components, and we have accepted all the licensing and so forth.
I can't.
This might take a few minutes, so just relax and we should be back, OK?
After a few moments notice that everything has been installed successfully and I say, finish, just
say, OK, get out of there.
In this case here, it's going to refresh again.
OK, looks like everything is looking good.
Take a little bit to do some building out internally.
So wait for a second here.
OK, it looks like the build was fine and our preview is taking its own time.
Let's go ahead and closes down, so hopefully we can have more space here still analyzing our code.
And voila, the preview is there is very, very small.
OK, so if I come here and we're passing this Android, I could see.
And me like that can see as you change the preview right away shows exactly what's going to be showing.
Right.
So hello, Android.
Me now the other thing we need to do is to make sure that, of course, obviously this is just a preview
of what we are composing here.
This is the beauty of jetpack compose is that we can actually use this code directly and starting to
compose our user interfaces, which is why this is very exciting.
But of course, we also want to be able to run this app, if you will, this user interface on an AMA
later.
So we need to install that as well.
To do that, we go to the top was his AVD manager that stands for Android Virtual Device Manager.
When I click there and then we're going to click Create Virtual Devices section.
OK.
So you can pick whatever you want.
But I always like to pick something that has this Play Store.
It's going to be more apparent as we go through this course.
All right.
So Pixel four, that's fine.
I'm going to say next and it says here recommendation your CPU does not support Vertex.
OK, so like I said before, in your case, you shouldn't have this problem.
OK.
Because again, the settings that I have on my windows here, it doesn't have that great.
But now if you end up having this problem, don't get along.
There are ways to solve this.
Number one, you make sure that all the system requirements your computer are up to par.
That's very important.
And number two, just don't panic if this is the problem that you may encounter.
OK.
It's something that can be fixed in most cases, anyway.
All right.
So if you don't see this and everything is great, all you have to do is then go to download the actual
release name or in this case, the API level that is needed for our selected image in this case, for
our emulator.
So you can you would do this, click there.
And this would happen.
OK, so we have that component finish.
Again, this may take a long time, so just wait until it's all done and then go ahead and say, Finish,
OK?
And in this case, here, I'm going to see it's there.
I'm going to select that.
I'm going to say next.
And then that's when you would, of course, leave the name or changed everything.
Name and Emily to performance.
You will change to automatic, right?
That's what we have, of course.
In your case, you will have other options here, but automatic is fine.
And then I'm going to go ahead.
Finish.
Again, for us, it's not going to work because our CPU does not support Vertex virtualization acts
and so forth.
OK.
All right.
So in this case, again, I'm going to and say finish and going to create Android virtual device.
Resume.
There we go.
There's that virtual device there.
And in your case, you could go in and say, actions launch that virtual device.
And of course, for me, it's going to work better for your case.
This should launch the AVP.
So we should be good.
And at this point here, you could just go ahead.
And of course, it would show here and click on this run button and it would have run this app on your
virtual device.
All right.
There you have it.
You should have Android Studio set up for development.